hey guys I got this patch see demo kid I
applied online for and they did actually
end up sending it out a couple weeks
later so I got it in the mail checked it
out real quick and thought I'd just give
a quick review about what we're looking
at here this is a one point two
millimeter or a 1.2 meter cable that
they've sent this is just some you know
advertisement stuff showing they're
different a pro version of their
light-up thing and the regular version
and different stuff here cat6 all of you
know whatever compliancy whatever
nothing else in the box really they gave
me some of this pre perforated velcro
strips kind of cool I guess they market
that too anyway here's the real issue or
here's the real item we're looking at
this is the actual cable as you can see
looks like a normal internet cable a
couple exceptions it's got these
removable blue clips here they just kind
of pull off so you can replace them with
different colors to indicate different
stuff on your network and whatnot
they've got these coil spring strain
reliefs which I'm not too fond of not
because they don't function right I
think they function okay but they're
like these metal springs and you know it
seems kind of overkill there's really no
reason you need that this is an ordinary
cat 5 or cat 6 rj45 connector and a
pretty robust sleeve here at the end of
it so I'm not really sure that this is
totally unnecessary items who have added
on there I would have liked to maybe
ditch that and maybe pass on some
savings to the end user because these
are pretty expensive I think this 1.2
meter cable is probably 7 or 8 bucks
something like that doesn't sound too
bad and so you need about 48 of them
maybe a hundred of them maybe 200 of
them in your environment depending on
what you got going on and you can get a
cable for monoprice cat6 patch cable 5 6
footer for like a dollar so maybe
slightly more than a dollar maybe
slightly less depending on the bond you
buy him but anyway um yeah so about 8
times higher than the price of a mono
priced cable approximately I'm just
rough working off the top of my head
guys please don't quote me too much on
that but they're definitely more
expensive than a right
the ethernet cable so um real simple
demonstration of the products you
basically have a switch that's fully
populated in your environment or maybe
not fully populated doesn't really
matter and you take this you take this
light up guide you press the button it
lights up red and you just simply slide
it on at the backside of the rj45 I
guess I didn't plug that in on the
absorber under the Ethernet cable and
press the button and I'm gonna go ahead
and switch lenses and show you that the
other end of this this cable here lights
up so it's a real easy way to identify
the patch cables in your environment
I only it only really would work out
into someone's advantage for like a real
a rack with you know an office building
that has a lot of drops
I work in data centers mostly anymore so
we have all our cabling within one rack
not to say we don't have multiple racks
but we rarely go up and over and we
definitely don't really work with patch
panels so all the servers in the rack
cable up to the switch in the rack
switch or switches in the rack kind of
cool to use this because we run the
wiring up like one of the sides of the
rack which can be kind of a pain task to
the trace out but it's not nearly as bad
as like an office building who's
constantly moving employees and patching
you know and doing physical moves and
stuff like that but uh but anyway I'm
gonna go on and show this um so you know
just just give me an idea of where I
think this would be most useful so I'm
go ahead and show you the the closer
photo or closer video here of this uh
lighting up alright guys so here you see
the cable is plugged in and you can see
the orange or rather red red dots here
those are the ends of the fiber strands
that are run through the plenum of the
cable or the insulation rather the cable
you know it's it's basically on or off
depending on the other end here I'm just
turning on and off the saw light up
module so that's basically how it works
on in terms of lighting up the cable I
got the exposure turned down pretty good
here if I expose the video like the rest
of the video that's about how bright it
is so you can see that it's a little bit
more noticeable in the in person than it
is on video but it's not super Krete
right but it's definitely a lot nicer
than you know trying to tone out and
trace out in tugging wire so something
be said about that it's pretty simple
there's two fiber strands that are in
there you know following the cables
cables insulation and then they double
back the reason I don't think this uh
this the strainer leaf is really
necessary is because it's protecting the
ethernet cable from strain which makes
sense cuz there's fiber in there
however the fiber is already bent 180
degrees back inside this connector so
it's already under stress so I'm gonna
take it apart real quick I don't think
anyone's made a video where this
connectors apart to show you the inside
workings of that and you can appreciate
what you're paying for here alright guys
so not trying to give away any of patch
these trademark secrets here but uh
basically to disassemble this guy you
can just pop this this blue connector
off here like so this little piece of
plastic is just kind of like some
flashing that's left over and then you
can just pull these little tabs up you
have to do it with your your fingers
trying to do this in the video so it's a
little tricky here once you got those
this thing opens just like your ordinary
clamshell you know any any clamshell
connector that you might have dealt with
before ever and so you can see the
fibers already popped out and then when
you look inside you know you can see
that you have an Ethernet cable with two
you know two fibers sticking out here
you got this guy here and you know
that's that was my point earlier was
just that this this boot doesn't really
make a whole lot of sense to me because
it's uh it's protecting the strain of
the cable you know from this point back
what the truth is the the fiber is
already doing a pretty radical Bend
right outside of the ethernet cable if
you guys can really see that very well
but trying to get it for you there so
anyway yeah that's the cable
disassembled you know in terms of the
connector I don't think I've seen
anybody post that before to show you
really what's going
on here and hopefully you guys find that
useful and you can understand better
what you're actually buying all right
guys thanks watching